In order to change
what's visible on the screen,
we need to change the state of this app,
so to say.
Now, attached you find an extra article and video
which I created
where I explain what state is.
In the end, you can take it quite literally though.
The current state of this application
is that we have free Todos and this overlay is open.
Now, we would like to also be able to present
another state, where this overlay is closed.
And we want to switch between the states.
When we click on delete, then it should open.
And when we click on cancel
or confirm or the backdrop,
it should close.
So that should be our ways of switching between the states
and React has a built in concept that helps us with that.
And conveniently, it's called State.
For this, let's go to our Todo.js file,
to our Todo component.
Here, we got this delete handler,
this function which is triggered
when the delete button is clicked.
When it is clicked, we would like to switch to the state
where the modal is open.
To make that happen, we need to import some functionality
from the React library.
So we import from React.
Import here.
We have no dot slash
because React is a third party library.
You import from those by just referencing the library name.
And then we import something like this
with curly braces.
We import the useState function.
That is a function exposed by the React library
which we can use in our component functions.
With useState, we register different States,
which we want to support in our React application
and React will react to changes in that state
and allow us as a developer to render different output
depending on which State is active.
Now, that all starts with calling useState
directly in our component function like this.
So not inside of delete handler
instead, directly in the component function.
UseState is a so-called React hook
and those React hooks can only be called directly
in React component functions and in custom hooks
which is a topic will not discuss in this course
but which is discussed in depth in my complete guide as well
For the moment it's enough that we know
that we can use React Hooks in React component functions.
Now, calling useState creates a state React
as a wear ofF.
Now, we can give this state a starting value
by passing it here as an argument to useState.
And that could be false if our state is
that we want to control whether the modal is open or not
and initially, it should not be open.
So the initial state is false.
Now, useState always returns an array
with exactly two elements.
That's how useState works.
It always returns an array with two elements
and we can store it as returned array in a constant
or we use array de-structuring
which is a JavaScript feature to store these two elements,
since we know that it will be always two elements,
indifferent constants
and we could give to first constant a name of showModal
or modalIsOpen open or anything like this.
And the second element here,
the second constant
a name of setModalIsOpen.
Now, why did I choose these names?
Because the first element,
which useState returns in its array
is the current state snapshot.
So this value, which is stored in this state.
You can think of React state as a variable
which is managed for you by React.
You define the initial value here
and you will then also be able to change that value.
Now, you get access to the currently stored value
for this first element here.
The second element
is a function that allows you to change that value
because you don't change it
by assigning a new value to modalIsOpen
instead, you always call this second function
to assign a new value.
Why does this matter?
Because whenever you call this state changing function
React will in the end re-execute
the component function to which this state belongs
and re-evaluate it,
and also update what's rendered on the screen.
This allows you to pick up the latest state value
and possibly render something different
depending on the state.
Notice it might still be a bit abstract.
It will become crystal clear in a couple of seconds.
What we can do now with these two elements
is that in delete handler,
we call setModalIsOpen and set is to true.
To change that modalIsOpen state from false,
which is our initial state, to true.
And then we use modalIsOpen
to conditionally render the modal and backdrop
down there in this JSX code.
So I go to App.js and I remove modal and backdrop from there
and remove the imports
since we're not using modal and backdrop
in this file anymore.
And instead I'll go to Todo.js
and import modal there from ./Modal
and import backdrop here from ./Backdrop.
Constructing the relative paths to these files
as seen from inside this Todo.js file.
And since modal and backdrop are neighbors to this file,
the paths look just like this
and then we can use these components down here.
Let's say here in that div.
Modal and Backdrop.
Now, if we added like this, they would always be rendered.
I only want to render them
if modalIsOpen is true,
If that state has a value of true.
Now, we are changing the state here.
To use it,
we can simply output a dynamic expression down here
and check if modalIsOpen is truth like this
and then write a ternary expression
where if this is true
we render Modal, and that might look strange,
but that is code what you can write
else, we don't output anything.
So we render null.
This certainly looks strange,
but that is how you can render content conditionally
with React and JSX.
In these dynamic expressions
between the curly braces,
you can again use JSX and that's what I'm doing here.
So I'm checking if modalIsOpen is true.
And if it is, I render the modal
otherwise I don't render anything.
And we can actually use a short trick or shortcut here
and use the double ampersand, the logical and operator here
like this
to simply use the fact that in JavaScript
if you use this operator, if both conditions are true
the second value will be returned.
So if that is true and that is true
and a function, a component function will always be true,
then this component function is output here
and that's simply shorter
than writing this ternary expression.
We can now repeat that.
ModalIsOpen check here, for the Backdrop.
And with that, we only output modal and backdrop
if modalIsOpen is true
and not if it's false
and we do this for every Todo component.
So if we saved this file as well now
we don't see the modal right now
but if we click on delete, we see it.
And now we can't interact
with the rest of this page because of this backdrop.
So that's a great step forward.
How can we now get rid of that modal, though?